impact of covid-19 pandemic on tourism & aviation industriesas the coronavirus pandemic unfolds, most industries face problems they had never imagined or prepared for. the aviation and tourism industries face the highest stress as coronavirus spreads because not only are they a (usually) a leisure spending but also the nature of the disease directly conflicts with the industries’ innate business models. in this article, we will look at the impact of covid-19 pandemic on the tourism and aviation industries both from the demand side and the supply side.the aviation and tourism industries has two major customers: tourists and business travellers. let us base this essay in the india and see what the reaction of the customer segments is expected to be like.almost all tourists  will avoid vacationing for the foreseeable future because of:now, let us look at different types of holiday revellers. tourists can be foreigners or domestic tourists. according to business insider “ in  2019 , almost  10 million  foreign tourists visited india — spending over  ₹1,800 billion  during january to november period. ”. however, because of the pandemic, almost all this business has been lost.due to the reasons stated above most  foreigners  will not prefer to travel. those who do dare to venture out, perhaps wooed by  discounted deals  to places which would have otherwise been out of their budgets, will possibly be warded off by the one of the following factors:moving our focus to domestic tourists, we subdivide our population according to income levels:in order to attract well paying customers, the aviation and tourism industries will have to  spend  a considerable amount of  money  to become  sanitation compliant  which will push profit margins even lower. most aviation and tourism activities made  money not on individual margins but on collective volumes , thus, they are inherently incompatible with the concept of social distancing.because of covid-19 pandemic, businesses have realized that more and more meetings can be handled over video calls, thus, the  movement  of  business personnel  will be  restricted . there will still be some representatives who will fly out to conduct business, but the industry can expect a  permanent drop in revenue  from this sector.moving over to the supply side, the aviation and tourism industries face strong  disruptions in their supply chain . because the industry is a leisure expense,  manufacturing  of many supporting equipment like the adventure sports gears and even parts of planes themselves has  stopped . because of the  drop in demand , it is going to be tough to get the supply chain back up again. furthermore,  workers  are  afraid to show up  to their jobs because of the high risk of contracting the virus due to exposure to multiple customers from different geographies.let us now see some  examples  of how the industry has done through march and april.the bookings vanished in mid-march. property owners had bought or leased real estate to list on the app were severely affected. the sharing economy, like uber, lyft and doordash had taken a hit but airbnb was worse off because their expenses include cleaning services, interior design (one-time spend), and property maintenance which are  fixed costs .thus, because of the pandemic the revenue was gone but the costs exist. they have people who depend on the owner’s rental income which made the problem worse.hosts usually decide  cancellation  policy, but under extreme circumstances, like this one, the company decided to override all existing policies (many of whom weren’t strict) and gave full refund to the guests. the company got $2 billion loan and has helped out the owners, financially by paying 25% for cancelled bookings capping at 5k/host. they have helped some hosts by getting them eligible for small business loans and avoid eviction.thankfully, there are too few properties to cause a  housing crisis , but breakdown could cause strain on lenders and undermine property values (all want to sell to avoid foreclosure or defaulting on loans). airdna states that the listing split-up for airbnb is: 33% list single property, 33% owners list 2-24 properties, 33% hosts have 25+ properties.some state governments in america have  banned short-term rentals . this hurt the airbnb owners because people looking to quarantine outside their homes or near relatives could’ve generated revenues.so, what are hosts doing now?many are discounting units and looking for long-term tenants (12 months). many are planning to apply for a small-business loan, seek forbearance from banks, find long-term tenants independently of airbnb and sell property.according to the wall street journal, roughly half of all us workers stand to earn more from the coronavirus rather than their work pay cheques. however, it must be noted that some have not gotten their money due to bureaucratical issues.this  complicates reopening  because workers don’t want to come back and expose themselves to the virus and earn less. but businesses want workers to come back so that their small business loans can be forgiven, and business can reopen. however, money in the consumer’s pockets means the economy expected to rebound quickly when businesses open. about 40 million americans are now on unemployment benefits, majorly from restaurant, hospitality, and retail industries.congress chose  a flat amount of relief  because it was really time-consuming for payments to be calibrated to each worker’s lost wages. their $600 federal payment corresponds to $15/hours wage, but 21 states follow $7.25/hours.most workers don’t want to sit at home and are anxious to get back to work, but right now staying at home is the  smartest financial decision  for their families.workers should be ineligible for unemployment benefits if a job is made available to them. but  owners  are  reluctant to report  workers to authorities and sever relationships with employees they may need more later in the year when tourism demand is expected to pick up. without income support, low-wage workers would likely seek out other jobs, including side hustles and gig work, which could expose them and their households to the virus. thus, according to the government, it was important to give such a large stimulus to the economy.studies of sars suggested that people sitting close to infectious persons were at large risk. combined with that, in long journeys, passengers may take off masks. thus, the  risks of   transmission  are large and airlines need to focus on figuring out how to prevent transmission in planes.currently, the airlines plan on using self-cleaning material, long-lasting disinfectant, touchless lavatories, uv light as a disinfectant, antimicrobial coating for frequently touched surfaces, and cleaning between flights.however, even after these efforts, only 12% of people are flying (compared to last year, same time) as of 27 th  may 2020.aviation and tourism industries have the curse of being a luxury expense and thus, as the coronavirus pandemic spread, the entire industry jolted to a halt. they are one of the hardest-hit sectors and have to  adapt to a new normal  wherein the revenue levels are unlikely to match to pre-covid levels and margins have also reduced. however, in with a bleak future, this industry is here to stay because people have to travel, and eventually they will vacation as well. coronavirus has become a “ survival of the fittest ” test for this industry and the stakeholders will come out of this disaster with strong business processes.